---
layout: post
title: "Learning Tailwind CSS - Part 2"
date: 2020-11-10
---

Back to [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/ "Tailwind CSS is a utility first CSS framework.").

As I'm reading through the Tailwind documentation, I'm trying to figure out how to use this tool in a systematic way. First, they suggest "it's often a good idea to implement the mobile layout for a design first, then layer on any changes that make sense for sm screens, followed by md screens, etc."[^1] This is definitely interesting, because they use prefixes to target breakpoints, unprefixed classes target mobile. I could see sort of using this technique to layout the UI. Put the items on the page in mobile view, widen the window to the next breakpoint and decide if things should change, rinse and repeat. The other side of this is that Tailwind doesn't use max-width, only min-width. So if there's something done at one breakpoint that shouldn't apply to a larger breakpoint, classes need to be added for the subsequent size to undo the prior change. They say this means that you need to apply the class when you want something to start taking effect.

Next up are the psuedo class variants.[^2] Hover, focus, active, group hover, etc... These are all great utilities. I love the idea of making the pages have more interactions/dynamism. I also don't want to go overboard. Just a little to pep it up and encourage a user through a process. Even more cool are the transform motion actions. Also the First/Last/Odd/Even-child for styling elements generated by some kind of loop seem really useful. Though they have to be enabled explicitly in the tailwind.config.js file!

As I'm sort of realizing that all of this documentation is interesting but trying to get a feel for where I'm at, I realize I'm about mid way through the core concpets but really want to get to the layout section... I need to sort of speed up my process of surveying the docs and circle back to things as they come up... Versus wanting to be methodic and systematic in my approach.

Yet I also see how it's going to be important to follow some of these core concepts like: Adding Base Styles, Extracting Components at a later point... The sections: Adding New Utilities, Functions & Directives seem like more advanced topics that I don't quite need yet. But it's good to at least survey them and see how robust this tool is. Honestly, it's impressive. I'd like to get to the place where I start to need these more advanced features. For now I need to just focus on the basics.

Now looking at the Customization section... I love the idea of Configuration but at this point it feels a bit premature. I'd love to be at the point in my understanding of this tool where I'd need to customize the configuration or be at the point where I want to optimize for size... That would be neat. A couple of things stand out in this section though. Mainly the defaults for each section. Especially the colors and variants. For example I had to extend the backgroundColor variant to support even, which I applied to a loop generated table row. It would also be neat to get to the point of using a plugin or even writing my own. Once again, totally beyond the scope of my needed understanding at the moment.

I must confess that as I started out reading this documentation pretty in depth, as the day as gone on, I've started skimming main section headings to quickly move through and not get distracted by some of these advanced topics because after all they are interesting... The final section is Preflight. This is most interesting as it resets styles to a base default state to address cross-browser inconsistencies.

Finally made it to Layout! But that's going to have to wait until tomorrow!

[^1]: [Tailwind Responsive Design](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/responsive-design#targeting-mobile-screens "Using responsive utility variants to build adaptive user interfaces.")
[^2]: [Pseudo-Class Variants](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/pseudo-class-variants "Using utilities to style elements on hover, focus, and more.")
